>> Anjana Vakil: Let's look
at impure render app first.
What's going on here, is we're
passing in the art we wanna render,
calling Pure Get SVG on it,
whatever that does.
We're not gonna worry about that
till 30 seconds from now [LAUGH].
And then we are doing this impure
side effect of messing with the DOM.
>> Anjana Vakil: Yeah, so this is not a
pure function because of that side effect.
Did anybody have a significantly
different impure render app than mine?
>> Speaker 2: I made it more
impure by putting, [LAUGH].
>> Anjana Vakil: By putting in what,
sorry?
>> Speaker 2: By putting art in
from global scope rather than.
>> Anjana Vakil: Yes, exactly,
so we could, for example,
just do that still passes cuz we know
there's impurity in this function.
So yeah, let's use all the impurity,
why not?
The only reason I put it in as an argument
here is because of a bunch of the other
stuff we're gonna do later
just to make it work nicer.
But yes, perfectly legit.
Now let's take a look at Pure get SVG.
Now is this making anybody uneasy here
that I'm calling this a pure function?
>> Speaker 3: Part of me is at the ID
setting, because then I can't recall it
with a different ID and I'm just,
I don't know, if I try to hit art SVG.
I can't have multiple art SVGs,
I'm going to cause problems for
myself later, but I know that's not
exactly what we're going over here.
>> Anjana Vakil: No, sure, yeah, but so
there is this weird thing of like, okay,
the ID is essentially hard
coded inside of this function.
If I wanted to be able to call
this multiple times to create
different SVGs with different
ID attributes, what could I do?
>> Speaker 2: Add an argument parameter.
>> Anjana Vakil: Exactly,
add a parameter so
that I receive the value
of ID as an argument and
assign it essentially,
so then I would have
to change this now my tests
are failing to art, nope.
>> Speaker 2: The create element.
>> Anjana Vakil: It's probably
looking to see if the-
>> Speaker 2: I think line five
if you scroll all the way over to the end,
there's ID.
>> Anjana Vakil: Right,
I was doing that again for course reasons.
Yeah, the tests aren't using it right,
yeah, exactly, no, of course.
I'm actually running the test, so
I would have to do something like that.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Anjana Vakil: There we go.
>> Speaker 2: Nice.
>> Anjana Vakil: See,
this is why we program in community.
Okay, [LAUGH] so yeah, so
there are ways that we could make
this a more flexible function.
And that is exactly the type of stuff
that we're gonna be doing a ton of as
functional programmers.
We're gonna be looking later in
the course at how to make the most
flexible functions possible so
that we can reuse them a lot, and
we can recompose them as well to
create the specific solutions we need.
>> Speaker 3: So we're creating
all the SVG and everything, and
we always know it's
gonna be deterministic.
It's gonna come out to be the same,
that's the core.
We can reuse this function, and then
the outside is where we're attaching it
to the DOM, rendering it all this
possible, calling the function.
>> Anjana Vakil: Exactly.
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
>> Anjana Vakil: And so,
for example, I don't know,
does my document have
an element with id app?
So all of the impurity
happens at this outer level.
And in a way, this is like, if you have
worked with react or any other framework,
that essentially lets you just say,
well, this data in my page,
please, and lets the framework
handle the actual rendering.
That's what we're doing, we're pushing
all of that impure rendering stuff into
the framework,
which is outside of my program.
And we're keeping the logic of like,
deciding what value and
attribute should be pure.
We're keeping that deterministic and
predictable.
And so the code that I'm writing,
if there is anything impure I wanna do,
I'm gonna put it on the outermost layer,
on the outermost function.
And then I'm like I keep everything else
as pure as possible underneath that,
so that I can easily test and
debug and so on and so forth.
>> Anjana Vakil: Sweet, and so this is
really like, okay, so if there's one
concept to walk away from this of course,
whether it's pure functions.
If there's two concepts,
the second one would be the real
world is not a pure function.
Computers are not pure functions,
although they are arguably deterministic.
But anyway, we'll talk about that later.
But the fact of life that we need to do
impure stuff in our work as programmers,
because that is what we get paid for,
is not going anywhere.
So all we can do is box it in and
make sure that we keep anything
that might result in unpredictable
things isolated away
from the logic of calculating,
like whatever our program
is supposed to do, in this case,
come up with an SVG.
So the work that we're doing here, and
the walls that we're bashing our
head against, around purity and
like this is the whole thing of functional
programming is how do we isolate impurity?
How do we make sure that all of the real
world messy stuff stays trapped
in a layer where it can't infect
the rest of the program, and
by calling the pure function from inside
the impure function, that's cool.
We don't introduce any impurity there.
The inverse would be a bad idea, right?
We don't wanna call an impure function,
because inside of our function,
we want to be pure, because that impurity
infects the function, as we saw before.
So this is the technique,
we could stop here.
If you wanna do functional programming,
make sure all the messy crap you're doing
in your code happens on
the outermost layer [LAUGH].
But there's a lot more gotchas to that and
there's a lot more to say about in
real world functional programming,
how do you deal with stuff like reading
files that you need the data of.
Or making that word requests and all that
stuff, and how do languages that really
don't allow impure functions, like
Haskell, etc, like, how do they do it?
Monads, but the core idea here,
even if we're not like this is not
functional code, this is still
our exact same imperative code,
step by step, but
we're wrapping it up in a function, and
we know it's deterministic and
it has no side effects.
And we're taking all of the non
deterministic stuff, and
we're putting it on the outside.